Sql server faq (#4006)
DataDog/documentation: content/integrations/guide/collect-sql-server-custom-metrics.md

---

> title: Collect SQL server custom metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Collect SQL Server Custom Metrics
```

Title case for title

kind: faq
---

By default the [Datadog-SQL server Check][1] only captures *some* of the metrics available in the `sys.dm_os_performance_counters` table. Add additional metrics by following the `custom_metrics` structure.

## Collecting metrics from DMV

> Find below an example for a basic custom metric collection. There is no instance associated with this counter. Note that you can specify optional `tags` to be sent with your metrics:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Find below an example for a basic custom metric collection. There is no instance associated with this counter. **Note**: You can specify optional `tags` to be sent with your metrics:
```

```
custom_metrics:
  - name: sqlserver.clr.execution
    counter_name: CLR Execution
    tags:
      - tag_name:value
```

> Parameter can be read as follow:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Parameter descriptions:
```

| Parameter      | Description                                           |
| ------         | ------                                                |
| `name`         | Name of your metric inside Datadog.                   |
| `counter_name` | The counter name of [SQL server database objects][2]. |

> If a counter has multiple instances associated with it. You can choose to only fetch one instance with the `instance_name` parameter name: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a counter has multiple instances associated with it, you can choose to fetch a single instance with the `instance_name` parameter name: 
```

```
custom_metrics:
  - name: sqlserver.exec.in_progress
    counter_name: OLEDB calls
    instance_name: Cumulative execution time (ms) per second
```

For finer granularity, query by the `object_name` :

```
custom_metrics:
- name: sqlserver.cache.hit_ratio
  counter_name: Cache Hit Ratio
  instance_name: SQL Plans
  object_name: SQLServer:Plan Cache
```

> If a counter has multiple instances associated with it and you want every instance available. Use the special value `ALL` for the `instance_name` parameter which **requires** then a value for the `tag_by` paramter. This example gets metrics tagged as `db:mydb1`, `db:mydb2`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To collect all instances of a counter with multiple instances use the special value `ALL` for the `instance_name` parameter which **requires** a value for the `tag_by` parameter. This example gets metrics tagged as `db:mydb1`, `db:mydb2`:
```

```
- name: sqlserver.db.commit_table_entries
  counter_name: Commit table entries
  instance_name: ALL
  tag_by: db
```

> The default table from which counters are drawn is the `sys.dm_os_performance_counters` table.  The Datadog-SQL server check also supports `sys.dm_os_wait_stats`, `sys.dm_os_memory_clerks`, and `sys.dm_io_virtual_file_stats`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default table from which counters are drawn is the `sys.dm_os_performance_counters` table.  The Datadog-SQL server check also supports `sys.dm_os_wait_stats`, `sys.dm_os_memory_clerks`, and `sys.dm_io_virtual_file_stats`.
```

To report a metric drawn from one of the additional tables, specify the table in the counter definition with the `table` parameter, as well as the counter columns to be reported with the `columns` parameter:

```
custom_metrics:
  - name: sqlserver.LCK_M_S
    table: sys.dm_os_wait_stats
    counter_name: LCK_M_S
    columns:
      - max_wait_time_ms
      - signal_wait_time_ms

```

The above example reports two metrics, `sqlserver.LCK_M_S.max_wait_time.ms` and `sqlserver.LCK_M_S.signal_wait_time_ms`. 

> Note that if metrics like `sys.dm_io_virtual_file_stats` and `sys.dm_os_memory_clerks` are not associated with a `counter_name` only the columns need to be specified:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: If metrics like `sys.dm_io_virtual_file_stats` and `sys.dm_os_memory_clerks` are not associated with a `counter_name` only the columns need to be specified:
```

```
custom_metrics:
  - name: sqlserver.io_file_stats
    table: sys.dm_io_virtual_file_stats
    columns:
      - num_of_reads
      - num_of_writes
```

> The above example reports two metrics, `sqlserver.io_file_stats.num_of_reads` and `sqlserver.io_file_stats.num_of_writes` each  tagged with the database id and file id.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above example reports two metrics, `sqlserver.io_file_stats.num_of_reads` and `sqlserver.io_file_stats.num_of_writes` each tagged with the database ID and file ID.
```

> ## Collecting metrics from a custom proc

Reviewer: Is this section talking about a stored procedure? If so, proc should be changed to procedure. Additionally, we have another article we can link to:
https://docs.datadoghq.com/integrations/faq/how-to-collect-metrics-with-sql-stored-procedure/

> As well as capturing from the DMV you can also capture from a custom proc

Reviewer: I would remove this line

> Please note this feature produces a number of custom metrics that might affect your billing. This feature is also only available when using the adodbapi driver (set by default)

Reviewer: Re-word and move to the bottom?

**Note**: Collecting metrics from a custom proc produces a large amount of custom metrics that may affect your billing. Also, this feature is only available when using the `adodbapi` driver (set by default).

> To use this feature, specify in your instance definition inside the `sqlserver.d/conf.yaml` file the the procedure to execute:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To collect metrics from a custom proc, update the instance definition inside your `sqlserver.d/conf.yaml` file with the procedure to execute:
```

```
stored_procedure: <PROCEDURE_NAME>
```

> The proc should return this table:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The procedure should return this table:
```

```
CREATE TABLE #Datadog
(
  [metric] varchar(255) not null,
  [type] varchar(50) not null,
  [value] float not null,
  [tags] varchar(255)
)
```

> Note: SET NOCOUNT to ON inside proc to avoid extra resultsets that prevent valid query results

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: SET NOCOUNT to ON inside the procedure to avoid extra result sets that prevent valid query results.
```

You can also specify:

| Parameter                 | Description                                                                                   | Default            |
| ---------                 | -------                                                                                       | --------           |
| `ignore_missing_database` | If the DB specified doesn't exist on the server then don't do the check.                      | `False`            |

> | `proc_only_if`            | Run this SQL before each call to `stored_procedure`. Only if it returns 1 then call the proc. |                    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `proc_only_if`            | Run this SQL before each call to `stored_procedure`. If it returns 1, call the procedure. |                    |
```

To report a metric drawn from one of the additional tables, specify the table in the counter definition with the `table` parameter, as well as the counter columns to be reported with the `columns` parameter:

```
custom_metrics:
  - name: sqlserver.LCK_M_S
    table: sys.dm_os_wait_stats
    counter_name: LCK_M_S
    columns:
      - max_wait_time_ms
      - signal_wait_time_ms

```

The above example reports two metrics, `sqlserver.LCK_M_S.max_wait_time.ms` and `sqlserver.LCK_M_S.signal_wait_time_ms`. 

**Note**: If metrics like `sys.dm_io_virtual_file_stats` and `sys.dm_os_memory_clerks` are not associated with a `counter_name` only the columns need to be specified:

```
custom_metrics:
  - name: sqlserver.io_file_stats
    table: sys.dm_io_virtual_file_stats
    columns:
      - num_of_reads
      - num_of_writes
```

The above example reports two metrics, `sqlserver.io_file_stats.num_of_reads` and `sqlserver.io_file_stats.num_of_writes` each tagged with the database ID and file ID.

## Collecting metrics from a custom procedure

> As well as capturing from the DMV you can also capture from a custom procedure

Reviewer: Remove line 96
